---
layout: post
title: term++;
date: 2018-04-21 09:00 -0800
author: Jeremy
edited:
editor:
---
Woah, I can't believe two terms have already gone by. Around now a year ago, I was still in Toronto, waiting to hear if I'd gotten into the BCS program, working BTS in the green room at CBC, and gearing up to work for the summer as a contract dev. And now here I am, across the country, wrapping up T2 with some incredible friends. I'm excited - summer's supposed to be fun in Vancouver, I'm taking more meaty classes, and I've got a really cool project that I'm getting sorted...

Sorry for not writing more. I _know_ that I said I'd try to do so. Maybe I'll get back to the longreads, or notes/thoughts on interesting things I debate with friends? Here's some stuff on the courses I took this term in the meantime:

#### CPSC 210

This was an _interesting_ introduction to OOP/software construction class. So as a heads up, a new course format and materials were introduced this term. It's basically a flipped class, where lecture materials are all delivered online, and lecture/lab meeting time is devoted to working through sample exercises/lab assignments/the term project. There were some hiccups with the rollout of the new format and material, but I wouldn't say it was too bad overall. The weekly quizzes in lab were annoying though, especially given the lag time between learning the material in lecture and then being tested on it.

In terms of content, it was cool to learn about Java, OOP, and an intro to some design patterns! I mean this is basically why I came back to school for a CS program - to learn about how things work under the hood and not just how to code things up. After 210, I can already point out a lot of things I could improve on re: my work last summer, which is a good sign that I'm learning.

I would've liked more meaty problems to puzzle through, but the project was fun to crunch out later in the term. We basically filled in the pieces to get a Translink (Metro Vancouver's transit authority) bus route app to work on Android.

#### ENGL 110

Yeah, so this is an introduction to English literature class. I had to take it as a degree requirement, as my UofT film studies/mass media studies electives didn't cut it. I didn't know it when I registered, but it turns out that profs have wide latitude to choose course content. Turns out I lucked out (maybe? maybe not?) on a section devoted to time travel and literature.

Got to read some cool texts, including _Kindred_ and _Top Girls_. On a positive note, I'd like to think that I'm a bit more aware of issues wrt race/gender/power now. I joke with my friends that I'm more #woke now, but hopefully there's some truth to that.

#### MATH 221

Linear algebra! Not sure what there is to say about this course, aside from the fact that you'll be really good at row reduction by the end of it. It's cool seeing vector stuff from the other side, vs. Calc 3. A lot of the theory that is all tied together by implications/bidirectionals is still a little confusing to me though.

#### STAT 302

STAT 302 is an introductory course on probability statistics. I guess I never really took a class directly about probabilities at UofT, but it seems I covered a lot of the concepts tangentially through my finance and economics studies. Pretty proof heavy in lectures, but the assignments, midterm, and (hopefully?) the final all seem fairly intuitive and straightforward.
