---
layout: post
title: (*term)++;
date: 2018-07-07 09:00 -0700
author: Jeremy
edited:
editor:
---
Woah, it's more than halfway through 2018... I'm done three out of seven terms, and by end of summer I'll be done four. Let me just say that this was the first time I've taken summer classes (and hopefully the last haha!), and it's definitely not a walk in the park. Because there's two terms over summer, classes that normally span 3 months are compressed into 1.5 months, but usually with very comparable deliverables to the 3 mo classes. The good thing about this is that the large amounts of practice and repetition help reinforce concepts quickly, along with how everything is pretty fresh in your mind by the time midterms and finals roll around.

#### CPSC 213
I really liked this class! Many students in CS programs tend not to like hardware classes, but I think they provide a lot of insight and can inform your engineering/design choices as a developer. We learned using an Instruction Set Architecture developed specifically for the class (essentially an abstract model describing the basic operations a computer can perform), but we also got a lot of experience working with C.

Essentially, we learned about the basic systems that make up a computer (i.e. the CPU, main memory, other I/O) and how programs we write in Java or C are turned into the actual instructions that are executed by the CPU.

Some standouts from the class include learning about stack-smash attacks (and that's why we dynamic memory allocation is good, folks), a lot of pointer stuff (because they're so powerful, but also dangerous), and an introduction to asynchronous programming (I'm still pretty lost, but I can start appreciating some multi-threaded issues I've run into in the past).

I believe CPSC 313 builds on this by introducing the Y86-64 ISA (very similar to the X86-64 ISA currently used by Intel/AMD), pipelining (i.e. multiple instructions can be executed simultaneously), disk memory, and OS scheduling. I was planning to take it this coming term, but ended up withdrawing to sort some other stuff out in the meantime.

#### CPSC 221
I can safely say I've been introduced to data structures and algorithms! Um, I'm not sure I have a lot to say about this course? It seems like a pretty standard introduction to the usual (arrays, linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, graphs, disjoint sets, etc.)

We also did some cool image manipulation/representation by loading image pixel data into different structures and running different algorithms on them to perform different tasks (like say comparing pixels and lossy image compression).

The nice thing about taking CPSC 221 concurrently with CPSC 213 was the reinforcement of concepts (programming in C++ is similar to C, plus there's a lot to do with pointer manipulation and a little bit of memory management/stack stuff).
