---
layout: post
title: Linear time sort exists!
date: 2018-09-16 09:00 -0400
author: Jeremy
edited:
editor:
---
I've survived the summer! I'm actually not in Vancouver at the moment - I'm in Toronto and then off to Rome and London for a little bit of vacation and a little bit of work in between the summer and fall terms.

It's nice to be back in the city, catching up with old friends and hearing what everyone is up to these days. I've missed living here, especially since a lot of great new restaurants are always opening up. We went to Aloette last night and it was amazing; the food and drinks were delicious. But the room! It is _gorgeous_. It reminds me of a beautifully done up old railway dining car....

Anyways, I only took one course this term, so this will be short.

#### CPSC 320
I guess this was a very theoretical class? It was cool learning about some problems I covered in Market Design at UofT like matching markets, but from the perspective of CS rather than economics. Other topics included flow networks, divide and conquer, dynamic programming, and NP-completeness. That seems pretty standard for an intermediate algorithms class.

What stood out were how much pseudocode and proofs were needed and used. I guess as problems become more complex, it's easier to work with more abstractions in between rather than at a very granular level with actual implementations and problems.

The textbook was pretty helpful. I think we were also lucky to have a traditional lecture and problem set format for the course - I've heard it has also been offered in a flipped classroom style where class time is to "work the problem" to introduce you to topics covered on the psets. I'm not sure that's the best, given the nature of the material covered.