---
layout: post
title: How machines learn
date: 2018-12-20 15:00 -0800
author: Jeremy
edited:
editor:
---
Happy holidays y'all! So I wouldn't recommend doing this, but I took 5 CS courses this term... _yeahhhhhh_

#### CPSC 304
So this was not what I was expecting from a databases course. I thought it would be a lot of SQL, but there was a lot of build-up and theory about sets, entities, relations, relational algebra, and normal forms. Might be useful when trying to model a domain and set up your own databases, but maybe not super helpful if you're just querying existing tables and relations. That being said, I'm doing a CS degree to learn the theory just as much as to learn the practical side of things, and I feel like I'm comfortable with SQL at this point.

#### CPSC 310
This was a pretty intensive project based class. You get to partner up with someone in your lab section, so be sure to register together with your friends if you already know who you want to work with! Lecture-wise it was good to learn some more design patterns and strategies for testing/decoupling things.

As I mentioned, the project was pretty intensive. There were four sprints over the term, each building on the last. I won't spoil the details, but suffice to say start working on them early - that way you'll get more grading time with Autobot, and more time to ask for help from course staff. Overall I enjoyed the project quite a bit, and I think it was a great way to get a feel for working with others and on different parts of an existing codebase.

#### CPSC 313
This was a very cool class! I enjoyed 213 quite a bit, and 313 continued to deliver. We learned about CPU implementations and how splitting instructions into different parts can help speed up processing, memory and caching, file systems, and some basics about operating systems. I personally think it's quite useful, even if you are not going to work directly with hardware, to understand roughly how a computer works so that you know what you can take advantage of and where limitations or problems might arise.

I'm continuing on by taking CPSC 415 next term, where we get to write a basic OS kernel.

#### CPSC 322
I'm not quite sure what I expected from an artificial intelligence class? It felt pretty theoretical, but it was interesting to see some of the ways we have represented the world and decision making, and how they are very different depending on what we want to accomplish. Also very cool to see some overlap with decision making and probability that I'd seen in bschool/economics previously! Overall this introduction seems a little historical, and maybe 422 gets into more of the current stuff, especially as it leans a bit more on the probability side. Or maybe that's my bias towards economics/finance and machine learning speaking...

#### CPSC 340
I really enjoyed this class! Mike and Mark are great lecturers, and this was a fantastic introduction to machine learning. The course balances actual implementation and real-world examples with theory and explanations of why and how things work. The set-up is also great: usually a showcase of a technology, maybe a real-life use, and then an explanation of the underlying mechanics. Then we would have to either work on the theory or write our own implementation for the next problem set. I didn't find the problem sets too unwieldy, but they do take some time (especially some of the math/stats). At the same time they really help you solidify your understanding of the machinery being used, and where or why it works and does not work.

I can't fully convey how much I liked this class, but as an indicator, I'm auditing CPSC 540 (the graduate level follow-up) next term, and my next major personal project is related to machine learning and applied statistics.