---
layout: post
title: How to write an OS
date: 2018-05-02 12:00 -0400
author: Jeremy
edited:
editor:
---
Almost done! I took it a bit easier this term with only 4 courses and auditing a grad-level machine learning course. I'm excited for my summer, as I'm in Toronto interning as a software developer. It's nice to be back; I'm looking forward to catching up with a lot of my friends and family who are still in the city.

#### CPSC 404
This course is focused primarily on database performance: we started off with an explanation of the hardware on which a database runs, and then moved on to indices and query strategies. In this way, it seems to be primarily geared towards DBAs, or developers who work on applications with heavy database components. That being said, CPSC 404 seemed to be very popular as a fourth year elective, with packed lectures for the entire term - maybe because almost everything uses a database these days?

#### CPSC 415
One of my favourite courses over this degree! CPSC 415 is concerned with operating systems, and is a kind of follow-up to CPSC 313. Over the course of the term, we learned about many of the basic services that an OS needs to provide to other applications, so as to make efficient and safe use of computing resources on the underlying hardware. This ranged from memory allocation, to process creation and management, to device management and I/O.

A very memorable part of the course is in the form of the project over the term - there's essentially three sprints focused on implementing the aforementioned services in our own OS kernel. It's recommended to tackle the project in teams of 2, but I ended up doing it on my own as my availability to work was very up in the air with summer recruiting. I thoroughly enjoyed it and I think I learned a ton/accomplished a lot, even if I went crazy near the end of the term when implementing the I/O device.

#### CPSC 425
This was a very cool introduction to computer vision. Initially I thought there would be a lot of overlap with machine learning, but that only came into play near the end of the course. There was a lot of explanation about how the imaging process works (throwback to high school physics class!), and then an overview of ways of solving problems like texture synthesis and analysis, depth estimation, and image classification/matching.

Definitely study for this course! As our prof mentioned, it's easy to take things for granted, especially the mathematical models used to represent images and operations on them, and if you're not reasonably comfortable with them the questions on the midterm and final could throw you for a loop.

#### CPSC 540
Even though this is a grad course, it's designed as a follow-up to CPSC 340 to make a full year of machine learning education. However, the prerequisites are a bit more involved and the workload a little heavier (this is a grad course, after all). I opted to audit the course and attend all the lectures without writing the problem sets and paper or sitting the final exam.

This is a good course to equip students to understand current machine learning research. We covered a lot of optimizations and large scale machine learning, as they were our prof's research focus. We also covered density estimation, graphical models, recurrent neural networks, and Bayesian methods.

To my understanding, the problem sets and final exam had very similar formats to CPSC 340, with theoretical as well as implementation questions designed to build understanding. From reading over them, they were for the most part more math- and stats-intensive than in CPSC 340.

#### STAT 306
This was a course on statistical inference, I think? There was a lot of overlap with CPSC 340 with respect to regressions, albeit with more of a mathematical proof perspective to show how or why certain tools and methods work.

Can't really say much about it. The course reader was okay, but I felt like lectures were just a re-iteration of the sections in the course reader, with a few worked examples from the end of chapter questions.